Audit getting started monitors (#19754)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/getting_started/monitors/_index.md

---

## Overview

With Datadog alerting, you have the ability to create monitors that actively check metrics, integration availability, network endpoints, and more. Use monitors to draw attention to the systems that require observation, inspection, and intervention.

This page in an introduction to monitors and outlines instructions for setting up a metric monitor. A [metric monitor][1] provides alerts and notifications if a specific metric is above or below a certain threshold. For example, to alert on low disk space. This guide covers:
- Monitor creation and configuration
- Setting up monitor alerts
- Customizing notification messages
- Monitor permissions

## Prerequisites

Before getting started, you need a Datadog account linked to a host with the Datadog Agent installed. To learn more about the Agent, see the [Getting started with the Agent guide][2], or navigate to **[Integrations > Agent][3]** to view installation instructions.

To verify, check your [Infrastructure List][4] in Datadog.

## Create a monitor

To create a monitor, navigate to **[Monitors > New Monitor > Metric][5]**.

## Configure

The main components of monitor configuration are:

> - **Detection method**: how are you measuring what will be alerted on? If a metric value or the change in values crosses a theshold? If the value is anomalous compared to previous values?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Detection method**: How are you measuring what will be alerted on? Are you concerned about a metric value crossing a threshold, a change in a value crossing a threshold, an anomalous value, or something else?
```

> - **Define the metric**: what value are you monitoring to alert? The disk space in your system? The number of errors encountered for logins?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Define the metric**: What value are you monitoring to alert? The disk space in your system? The number of errors encountered for logins?
```

> - **Alert conditions**: when does an engineer need to be woken up? 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Alert conditions**: When does an engineer need to be woken up? 
```

> - **Notification**: what message and what information needs to be in the alert?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Notification**: What information needs to be in the alert?
```

To get an alert on low disk space, use the `system.disk.in_use` metric from the [Disk integration][6] and average the metric over `host` and `device`:

{{< img src="getting_started/monitors/define_the_metric.png" alt="Define the metric for system.disk.in_use avg by host and device" >}}

### Set alert conditions

According to the [Disk integration documentation][6], `system.disk.in_use` is *the amount of disk space in use as a fraction of the total*. So, when this metric is reporting a value of `0.7`, the device is 70% full.

To alert on low disk space, the monitor should trigger when the metric is `above` the threshold. The threshold values are based on your preference. For this metric, values between `0` and `1` are appropriate:

Set the following thresholds:
```
Alert threshold: > 0.9
Warning threshold: > 0.8
```

For this example, leave the other settings in this section on the defaults. For more details, see the [Metric Monitors][7] documentation.

### Notification

> When this monitor is triggered to alert, the notification message is what is sent. You can include conditional values, instructions for resolution, or a summary of what the alert is. At the very minimum, a monitor must have a title and message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When this monitor is triggered to alert, a notification message is sent. In this message, you can include conditional values, instructions for resolution, or a summary of what the alert is. At the very minimum, a notification must have a title and message.
```

To get an alert on low disk space, use the `system.disk.in_use` metric from the [Disk integration][6] and average the metric over `host` and `device`:

{{< img src="getting_started/monitors/define_the_metric.png" alt="Define the metric for system.disk.in_use avg by host and device" >}}

### Set alert conditions

According to the [Disk integration documentation][6], `system.disk.in_use` is *the amount of disk space in use as a fraction of the total*. So, when this metric is reporting a value of `0.7`, the device is 70% full.

To alert on low disk space, the monitor should trigger when the metric is `above` the threshold. The threshold values are based on your preference. For this metric, values between `0` and `1` are appropriate:

Set the following thresholds:
```
Alert threshold: > 0.9
Warning threshold: > 0.8
```

For this example, leave the other settings in this section on the defaults. For more details, see the [Metric Monitors][7] documentation.

### Notification

> When this monitor is triggered to alert, a notification message is sent. In this message, you can include conditional values, instructions for resolution, or a summary of what the alert is. At the very minimum, a notification must have a title and message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When this monitor is triggered to alert, a notification message is sent. In this message, you can include conditional values, instructions for resolution, or a summary of what the alert is. At minimum, a notification must have a title and message.
```

4. Remove duplicate files
```

To add conditional messages based on alert vs. warning thresholds, see the available [Notification Variables][8] you can include in your message.

#### Notify your services and your team members

Send notifications to your team through Email, Slack, PagerDuty, and more. You can search for team members and connected accounts with the dropdown box. When an `@notification` is added to this box, the notification is automatically added to the message box:

{{< img src="getting_started/monitors/message_notify.png" alt="Message with conditional variables and @notification" style="width:90%;" >}}

Removing the `@notification` from either section removes it from both sections.

> Leave the other sections as is. For more information on what each configuration option does, see the [Monitor configuration][9] documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Leave the other sections as-is. For more information on what each configuration option does, see the [Monitor configuration][9] documentation.
```
